 
     
 
    
 
 
Global Human Rights Policy  
Effective 2017  
Revised May 20 22  
Introduction and Scope  
 
At PepsiCo, we believe our success can only be achieved when all of  our stakeholders are treated with 
dignity and respect. This belief is woven into everything that we do, and it is the foundation of our 
vision: to Be the Global Leader in Convenient Foods and Beverages by Winning with pep+ (PepsiCo 
Positive). Wining with pep+ is the future of our company —a strategic, end -to-end transformation that 
places sustainability and human capital at the center of how we create growth and value.  
 
Wining with pep+ is about many things, but among the most vital is our commitment to hum an rights. 
Given the presence of political and economic volatility around the world, the principles of the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights  are as relevant today as they were wh en the Declaration was 
adopted over 70 years ago. Human rights abuses of any kind are unacceptable. As one of the world’s 
leading food and beverage companies, we recognize that we have a responsibility to advance respect 
for human rights in our business an d throughout our value chain.  
 
This Global Human Rights Policy outlines the core standards and expectations we have established 
for our employees, direct suppliers, and business partners in the area of human rights. This policy is 
incorporated into our Global Code of Conduct  and applies to all PepsiCo employees and joint venture 
employees over which we have management control. It is also embedded in our Global Supplier Code 
of Conduct , and we expect our suppliers and business partners to adhere to the standards outlined 
in this policy  
 
Our Commitment  
 
PepsiCo is committed to respecting the rights of all individuals and communities throughout our value 
chain. Specifically, we are committed to respecting the rights and freedoms defined in the following 
international instruments:  
- Universal Declaration of Human Rights  
- International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights  
- International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights  
- International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles a nd Rights at Work  
- United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child  
- United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women  
- United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peo ples 
- International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination  
- Internat ional Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members 
of Their Families  
 
In fulfilling our responsibility to respect human rights, we are committed to implementing the UN 
Guiding  Principles on Business and Human Rights throughout our business and reporting on our 
progress in line wit h the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. We are also supporters, 
signatories, or members of the following frameworks: OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 
UN Global Compact, UN Standards of Conduct for  Business on Tackling Discrimination against LGBTI 
People, and Women’s Empowerment Principles.  
 
Our Human Rights Standards  
 
PepsiCo requires compliance with all applicable local laws and regulations. The following standards 
are based on recognized international human rights standards and reflect the salient human rights 
issues we have identified for our value chain. Our respect for human rights is not limited to these 
standards.  
 
We recognize that instances may arise where national law and internati onal human rights standards 
do not align. Where they conflict, we will comply with national law and explore alternative ways to 
respect international human rights standards to the greatest extent possible.  
 
1. Child Labor  
 
PepsiCo prohibits the use of child labor in our operations and supply chain. We prohibit the hiring of 
individuals under the age of fifteen (15) or the local legal minimum working age or the compulsory 
schooling age, whichever is higher. Younger workers ma y be employed through Company approved, 

 
     
 
    
short -term internships, apprenticeships, or work experience programs, but they are never permitted 
to perform work that may threaten their health and safety or hinder their education or vocational 
training. We requir e the age of our workers to be verified at the time of hiring and have processes in 
place to responsibly remediate any potential policy violations.  
 
2. Forced Labor and Human Trafficking    
 
PepsiCo prohibits the use of all forms of forced labor, including involuntary prison labor, indentured 
labor, bonded labor, military labor, slave labor, and any form of human trafficking. All employment 
decisions must be based on free choice. No employee may be coerced to work or subjected to physical 
punishmen t or threats of violence or other forms of physical, sexual, psychological, or verbal abuse 
as a method of discipline or control. All employees must be provided with a written employment 
document (e.g., offer letter, contract, etc.) that clearly states the  terms of their employment (e.g., 
hours, pay, benefits, etc.) in a language understood by the worker, with a verbal explanation provided 
when necessary. All employment agreements must be freely agreed to in writing by the worker and 
their employer.  
 
All wo rkers have freedom of movement, and the conditions of employment must not restrict their 
movement through the retention of identity papers, holding of deposits, accommodation 
requirements, or any other action aimed at restricting worker mobility. Furthermo re, in line with the 
Employer Pays Principle , no worker should be required to pay recruitment or other similar fees to 
secure or retain their employment. The cost of recruitment should be borne by the employer.  
 
3. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining   
 
PepsiCo respects our employees’ right to join or form an organization such as a labor union and to 
bargain collectively. We prohibit any form of intimidati on, harassment, retaliation, or violence against 
union members, trade union representatives, and any employee seeking to exercise these rights. 
Where our employees are represented by a legally recognized union, we are committed to 
establishing a constructi ve dialogue and bargaining in good faith with their freely chosen 
representatives. Where the right to freedom of association is restricted by law, we will support the 
development of alternative mechanisms for engagement while remaining in compliance with l ocal 
law. 
 
4. Harassment and Discrimination  
 
We value the diversity and unique contributions of our employees and have a long -standing 
commitment to equal opportunity and intolerance of discrimination and harassment. Simply put, 
PepsiCo has zero -tolerance for any type of harassment or discrimination. This includes harassment or 
discrimination based on race, color, age, sex or gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender 
expression, transgender status, religion, creed, national origin, ethnicity, citi zenship, ancestry, 
disability, genetic information, military or veteran status, pregnancy, marital or familial status, or any 
other protected category under applicable law. Prohibited behavior includes harassment or 
discrimination by or against PepsiCo emp loyees, applicants for employment, and third parties, 
including customers, visitors, or vendors of PepsiCo.  
 
5. Human Right to Water  
 
Water stewardship has long been one of PepsiCo’s top priorities. As one of the first companies of our 
size to acknowledge water as a human right, we have adopted an approach to watershed 
management that includes improving water -use efficiency across our value chain, replenishing water 
in the local watersheds that are most at risk and where we operate, and increasing safe wate r access 
for communities that face scarcity. As a food and beverage company, we are acutely aware of the 
critical role water plays in the food system, and it is our vision that wherever in the world PepsiCo 
operates, water resources will be in a better sta te because of our presence. To support this vision, 
we have established an impact -driven Net Water Positive ambition, including a set of 2030 goals 
aimed at becoming net water positive in our operations, enhancing watershed management in our 
agricultural s upply chain, and contributing to community water health.  
 
6. Land Rights  
 
PepsiCo recognizes that secure land rights are a vital component of economic prosperity, sustainable 
food production, and the responsible use of natural resources. As outlined in our Land Policy, we have 
a zero - tolerance policy for illegal activities in our operations and a zero -tolerance policy for land 
displacements of any legitimate land tenure holders. When PepsiCo acquires land (including 
purchasing, leasin g, and utilization), we will engage in fair and legal negotiations and use the IFC 
Performance Standards to implement the Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC) principles for 
agricultural development in developing countries.  
 
 
 

 
     
 
    
 
7. Voluntary Prison Labor  
 
In line with ILO Guidance, voluntary prison labor may be used in highly supervised situations where 
prisoners have given their consent, are being rehabilitated or trained in preparation for release, and 
the terms and conditions o f their employment are similar to those of the free labor market.  
 
The specific requirements include:  
• Work or service can only be required from prisoners who have been convicted in a court 
of law. Such work or service must be carried out under the supervis ion and control of a 
public authority, for example the prison administration of a State -run facility. Prison 
workers must not be hired to or placed at the disposal of private individuals, companies 
or associations. Compulsory work or service by prisoners i s not allowed for private 
undertakings either inside or outside the prison, or within privately administered prisons.  
• Work or service performed by prisoners in a private undertaking must be voluntary. 
Prison workers must give their consent to working for a  private employer without being 
subject to a threat or penalty, including the loss of rights or privileges within the prison.  
• Conditions for prisoners who have consented to work within private undertakings should 
approximate the conditions enjoyed by free workers. Prison workers should have access 
to wage levels, social security benefits, and occupational safety and health standards that 
approximate a free labor relationship. Reasonable differences in wage levels are 
acceptable based on deductions made for board and lodging.  
 
8. Wages and Benefits  
 
We believe that all of  our employees should be paid a wage sufficient to afford a decent standard of 
living, and we are committed to providing fair wages and equitable benefits for our employees and 
their families. PepsiCo compensates our employees competitively relative to the  industry and 
requires compliance with all applicable local laws governing the payment of wages and benefits. All 
employees must receive wages that meet or exceed the legal minimum wage. Overtime must be 
compensated at the appropriate premium rate required  by local law, and all wages must be paid on 
time and in full. All employees must receive a pay statement for each pay period that clearly outlines 
the components of their compensation, including hours worked, benefits received, and any 
deductions. PepsiCo  prohibits the deduction of wages as a disciplinary measure and requires that all 
deductions be made in accordance with local law.  
 
9. Working Hours and Rest Periods  
 
We recognize the importance of work -life balance and have established policies to guide w orking 
hours, overtime, and rest periods for workers in our operations and supply chain. As we continue to 
evolve our approach, we will strive to meet international standards regarding working hours and rest 
periods, which include: (i) a standard workweek of no more than 60 working hours (48 regularly 
scheduled work hours and 12 voluntary overtime hours), (ii) a minimum of 8 hours of rest between 
days of work, and (iii) at least 24 hours of consecutive rest in every 7 -day period, except in 
emergencies or un usual situations.  
 
10. Workplace Health and Safety  
 
Protecting the safety, health, and well -being of our associates around the world is one of our top 
priorities as a company. We have established policies and systems to drive health and safety values 
throu ghout our business, including our Global Environmental , Health and Safety (EHS) Policy  that 
outlines our “Beyond Zero” vision of achieving an injury -free work environment and creating a culture 
of positive impact on the health and well -being of our employees and surrounding environment. Our 
Global EHS function leads the strategy to achieve this vision and oversees our Global Environmental, 
Health, and Safety Management System (GEHSMS), which sets the global health and safety standards 
for our business and assesses our performance. We are committed to providing and maintaining a 
safe and heal thy workplace, and we are dedicated to engaging with our employees to continually 
improve health and safety in our workplaces, including the identification of hazards and remediation 
of health and safety issues.  
 
Our Grievance and Remedy Process  
 
We recognize that our policies and programs may not prevent all adverse impacts in our value chain, 
and we are committed to providing and/or helping enable remedy where we caused or contributed 
to those impacts and to using our leverage to encourage our suppl iers and partners to provide remedy 
where we find impacts directly linked to our business operations, goods, or services. To facilitate this 
process, we have established a variety of mechanisms that allow our employees, stakeholders, and 
other potentially affected individuals to raise grievances and seek remedy. Our mechanisms do not 
obstruct access to other remedy channels or procedures and, where appropriate, we will collaborate 
with other organizations and companies to help prevent, mitigate, or remediat e adverse impacts.  

 
     
 
    
 
 
Our Direct Operations  
 
All PepsiCo employees have an obligation to report suspected violations of our Global Code of 
Conduct, policies, and applicable law. Our employees have several avenues for reporting issues and 
seeking advice, including through their manager, Human Resources, the Law Department, the Global 
Compliance and Ethics Department, and our Speak Up hotline. Speak Up is a toll -free ethics hotline 
operated by an independent third party that provides PepsiCo employe es, consumers, suppliers and 
business partners, and community members with a 24/7, anonymous and confidential means of 
reporting suspected violations. Speak Up is accessible anywhere in the world:  
• By phone in over 60 countries and multiple languages using a special toll -free telephone 
number based on the country from which someone is calling. For a list of international 
country phone numbers, please see the Speak Up section on our websi te. 
• By web in 26 languages at http://www.pepsicospeakup.ethicspoint.com/  
 
Our Non -Retaliation Policy strictly prohibits retaliation against any individual who, in good faith, 
reports a suspected violation. Any instance of retaliation against an individual for reporting a concern 
in good faith is itself a serious violation of our Global Code of Conduct, and any employee found to 
have engaged in such retaliation will be subject to appropri ate discipline. Similarly, for our employees, 
failure to adhere to the standards outlined in this policy may result in disciplinary action up to and 
including termination of employment.  
 
Our Value Chain  
 
We expect our suppliers and business partners to ope rate with the same high standards to which we 
hold ourselves. This expectation includes having an effective operational -level grievance 
management system in place for their operations and prohibiting retaliation against individuals who 
raise concerns about  their practices. To complement any operational -level systems, their workers 
may also report suspected violations of our policies and standards through the PepsiCo Speak Up 
Hotline, which is made available to suppliers through our Global Supplier Code of C onduct. Our 
Agricultural Grievance Mechanism  is also available to anyone who has a specific concern that our 
policies and expe ctations are not being met in our agricultural supply chain.  
 
When managing non -compliances, we first look to engage our suppliers and business partners to 
drive corrective actions that help address the underlying issues and build capacity. Where direct 
engagement does not lead to meaningful progress, we consider all appropriate forms of leverage, 
including the reduction and/or termination of supply or potential impacts to the relationship.  
 
Transparency and Reporting  
 
In fulfilling our responsibility to respect human rights, we are committed to implementing this Policy 
throughout our business in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and to 
regularly reporting on our progress in line with the UN Guiding Principl es Reporting Framework.  
 
 
 
Signed,  
 
 
Ramon Laguarta  
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer PepsiCo, Inc.  
 
